[MUSIC PLAYING]
ROB DODSON: Hey,
everybody, what's up?
It's Rob Dodson.
Welcome back to the show.
So today, we're going
to be continuing
our series on
Polymer and Firebase
by using the Firebase
Messaging element.
So that allows us to add push
notifications to our Polymer
plus Firebase app.
So to get started with
Firebase Messaging,
follow me over
here to my laptop.
And I've gone to
beta.webcomponents.org.
This is our amazing new
web components catalog.
And I just went ahead and
looked for Firebase Messaging.
That'll take me to
the Polymerfire repo.
And once you're here,
you want to make sure
to go over to the
side bar here, where
I lists all of the elements
that fall under Polymerfire,
and click on Firebase Messaging.
Now we can see the docs
specific to this element.
So there's a few things
that we need to do to get up
and running with
Firebase Messaging.
And I often forget these steps.
So I'm going to try
and do them first
so I don't forget this time.
The first one we want
to do is go down here
to where it says that we
need a web app manifest.
And we need this gcm_sender_id.
So there is a specific number
that it has listed here--
like 10395-- whatever,
whatever, whatever.
We have to use that exact
number in our web app manifest,
because that is the
sender ID for, I think,
Google Cloud Messaging
Service or whatever, which
is what we have to use to
send push notifications using
Firebase.
So I am going to go over
to Visual Studio Code.
I've got this project
that I've already started.
I'm going to create a new
file called manifest.json.
And inside of here, I'm going
to paste just that one key.
You might already have a
manifest.json for your project.
You might already have a few
other things inside of there.
That's cool.
Just make sure that you
include this one key
somewhere in your manifest.
And then over in
my index file, I'm
just going to write a link tag.
And the rel is going
to be manifest.
And the href is going
to be manifest.json.
Just like that.
The next thing we
need to do is we
need to get some magical keys
from our Firebase project.
I'm going to go over
to my Firebase console.
This is my project that
I've already set up.
And I can click on this little
gear here, my project settings.
And there's a tab right
here for Cloud Messaging.
So I'll bump that
up a little bit.
It's just a little
easier to see.
So there's a couple
keys on this page.
I'm going to just go ahead
and take this server key
and copy that to my
clipboard, because I'm
going to need that later.
And I also need this sender ID.
So this is my
Firebase-specific sender ID.
This one is specific
to my project.
So it's different from
that gcm_sender_id
that we were just working with.
So I am going to copy this
one, go back to my project,
and I'm going to find my
Firebase app element, which
is somewhere in here.
Here we go.
And I believe we need to
make sure to add to this one
messagingsender-id and set it
to that Firebase-specific key
that we just copied
out of there.
OK, we've got that part set up.
Now, we're ready to actually
start adding Firebase Messaging
to our project.
We're going to get back to the
server key a little bit later.
But now we're actually
ready to start dropping
some of these elements in.
So I go back to the
docs for Polymerfire.
And what's really nice
is the sample code here
is pretty good.
So we can just sort
of follow it directly.
So I want to grab this Firebase
Messaging element right here.
Just copy that code.
And what I'm going
to build is basically
like a little toggle switch.
So I'm going to hit
the toggle switch.
It'll ask them for permission
to send them notifications.
They'll say, yes.
It'll take that token that's
generated by that permission
grant.
It'll save that to Firebase.
And it will also
give us an indicator
that we can then go ahead
and send them a notification.
And then we're going to do
that using some cURL magic.
To create that element,
I'm going to, in my public
directory, just make a new file
called my-subscription.html.
And I'm going to just start
out by importing a few Firebase
elements that we need.
We know that we're
going to need--
so we'll do this
from Polymerfire--
we're going to
need firebase-auth.
We're going to need
firebase-document.
firebase-messaging.
And one more element
that we're going to need
is a paper toggle button.
So I haven't installed
that yet, but I
will in just a second--
so paper-toggle-button.
Right?
Switch over to the terminal.
So we'll do bower install
save PolymerElements/paper
toggle button.
So I'll go out and fetch it.
I've already got it
installed in my project.
So it should be good to go.
Switching back over to
the subscription element
that we were writing,
I'm just going
to use the little code snippet
here to stub things out.
So I'll say my-subscription.
Cool.
So in our template, we
can now just start copy
and pasting some of
the code that we saw
in the Firebase Messaging docs.
So I'll just drop in the
Firebase Messaging element
right here.
There we go.
All right, so what
this is going to do
is it's going to
create an element that
has an ID of messaging.
We'll use that later to
access it in JavaScript.
It's going to have a token
attribute, which is just
going to expose to the
rest of the elements
inside of this thing
that we're building.
And then when it
receives a message,
it's going to try and call this
handleMessage method, which
we'll implement a
little bit later.
The other thing we need
to do is just verify
that we have a user.
So I'm going to just drop
in a firebase-auth element.
Paste this puppy in there.
Cool.
All right, so we used this
in the past two episodes.
We're kind of treating
firebase-auth almost
like a model representing
the state of the user.
And in this case, we just want
to get that user value out
of firebase-auth.
So once the user
has signed in, we
can use that value to then
write to specific parts
of that user's database.
In this case, we
are going to use
it to save the token that
Firebase Messaging generates
when the user grants
it permission.
So to do that, we will drop
in a firebase-document.
Past this puppy in here.
All right, so what we're going
to do with this document is,
the firebase-document works
very similar to firebase-query,
which I think we used
in the last episode.
Firebase-query you use to
write to the Firebase database
when you're working
with array-like data--
so a big collection of
things like the to-do's
in our to-do list.
Firebase-document
is useful when you
want to write to a
very specific object.
So we're not pushing a
bunch of array-like data.
We're just writing a
specific value to some field.
So in this case,
we're going to say,
we want to write
to /users/user_uid.
So this will be specific to
the user that's signed in.
And we're going to give them
this token sub-property,
and we're going to
write to that field.
The data that will
fulfill that value
is going to come from this
one-way token binding, which
will be generated by
Firebase Messaging.
So basically, what we're
doing is we're saying,
when the user grants Firebase
Messaging permission,
it's going to generate
a token, and we're going
to save that to the database.
And that's really useful,
because in the future when
you want to send
somebody a notification,
you are going to
check to see, OK,
is this user-- have they
approved the permission
to send notifications?
Yes or no?
Do we have a token?
If so, let's use that to then
send them that notification.
All right, I want to set
up a little bit of code
to actually ask the user
for permission here.
And this is we're going to
use that paper-toggle-button.
So I've just got a little bit
that I will paste in here.
All right, so we've got
a paper-toggle-button
with an ID of Subscribe, and
whenever the user taps it,
we're going to call this
toggle-subscription-method.
And then we're
going to figure out
whether this thing should
be checked or not checked
based on if the user has
already generated a token.
This is a quick and
dirty way to do things.
I would actually
probably recommend,
if you're building like
more of a production app,
you have a separate property
where you're keeping track of
whether or not the
user is subscribed.
But in this case, since we
just want to get something up
and running, we can
use this approach.
And then underneath where
the paper-toggle-button asked
the user to subscribe,
I'm actually
just going to create a
couple paragraph tags to log
the value of the token.
And we're going
to need that later
on when we use cURL to
actually send a notification.
But normally, you would just
store this in your database,
and you would work
with it server side.
But in our case,
we're going to use it
so we can cURL against it.
So I need to implement this
toggle-subscription method
so that the user can do the
whole permission auth grant
thing.
So if we go over and we
look at the documentation
for Polymerfire, they've
actually given us basically
all the code that we're going
to need to stub out there.
We're just going copy
this chunk right here.
And I'll walk you
through what's happening
after we implement it.
So we'll say
toggle-subscription is function.
And we'll paste that in.
All right, so what
is happening here?
So we're saying, all right,
find this .$.messaging.
So again, that's Polymer's
way of referring to an element
by its ID.
So this is referring to our
Firebase Messaging element
right here.
So we're saying
take that element.
Call its request
permission method.
That's going to then
ask the user, hey,
is it cool to send
you notifications?
And it's going to
return a promise.
And if that promise
fulfills, then we
know that permission
was granted.
If that promise fails
for whatever reason,
then we know that
permission was denied.
This is also a good place, for
instance, if you wanted to,
you could differentiate the user
is subscribed or not subscribed
and store a separate value
in your database just
like a flag is
subscribed or not.
You could do that inside
of these handlers.
But in our case, we're just
going to prompt the user.
And once they say yes, then our
Firebase Messaging element--
it will get a token
just sort of magically.
That's how its internals work.
That will fulfill to this
firebase-document element.
So it'll write it
to our database,
and we'll actually be able
to go check the database
to verify that everything
is working as expected.
The last thing that
I want to do here
is implement this
handleMessage method.
So this is going to
run whenever we receive
a notification from the server.
So in our case,
because we're working
kind of quick and dirty,
I'm actually not going
to do very much with this.
What you could normally
do is display like a toast
or some sort of notification
like on the desktop site
to the user.
But I am just going
to console-log
that a message was received.
And we will just log
out the arguments,
which should give us
like a data object
showing us the content
of that notification.
And the cool thing,
though, is if you
are on a mobile device
like mobile Chrome,
this notification,
as it came in,
would just show up in the user's
system tray automatically.
You don't even really
need to do any code
to make that happen,
which is pretty awesome.
The last thing, actually,
that we need to do
is we need to create
a service worker that
can work with Firebase
Messaging and receive those push
notifications, even if
the user is not currently
looking at this application
as their active tab.
So if we go and we look
at our documentation,
it tells us that we should have
a firebase-messaging.swjs file.
So I'll create that new file.
And the contents of
that file are linked to
from these FCM documentations.
Here we go.
I've copied this
code from earlier.
But basically,
what we're doing is
we're importing the Firebase
App JavaScript file.
We're importing Firebase
Messaging JavaScript.
We need both of these
little libraries
so that our service
worker can properly
work with Firebase services.
And then we just call this
one method-- initialize-app.
We give it our
message-sender ID,
which, if you remember, we
copied out of our project
console earlier.
And then we just have this
messaging property where we're
just saying firebase.messaging.
That just kicks things off
and gets things running.
I think, at this point,
we might be good to go
and actually ready
to test this thing.
Fingers crossed that this
works on the first try.
So I'm going to
run Firebase Serve.
That'll start up a
little local project.
So I'll go over to
our project here.
All right, refresh the page.
Cool.
Let's see.
I think we're missing
something here.
Oh.
It is helpful if we include
the subscription element
in the rest of our project.
So go back to my app--
make sure that we
have imported my
subscription-- my-subscription.
Man, I'm totally-- I know I'm
not spelling this thing right
somewhere.
But I'm going to power
on and see what happens.
So I'll drop in
my-subscription element.
Right?
OK, refresh the page.
Yes.
OK, we have a
paper-toggle-button here.
So the user clicks
the check box.
It asks them, hey, can
I get your permission?
We say, yeah.
And that's going to give us
this big, elaborate token.
Remember, if we go
back and we look
at the my-subscription
element, when
the user receives
their token, I'm
like writing it to the page.
So we can use it to cURL.
So I'm going to copy
all this text here.
And it runs off
to the side there.
So grab all of that.
There we go.
Get all of that.
And let's see.
If we look in our
Firebase console,
we can actually
see in the database
that our user has
been established.
They have a token
that has been written
to the database for them,
which is kind of nice.
And so the last
thing I'm going to do
is I'm just going to
use cURL to simulate
sending this user a message.
Now, normally,
you would probably
do this work on your server
side based on some user action.
But we're just going to do
it here from our console just
to test that everything works.
And I've saved already
this notification file,
because there's a
fair bit of code
that we have to write
to make this work.
And I'm going to post all this
code on GitHub afterwards.
So you don't have
to memorize all this
or copy it down by hand.
But we're going to use cURL.
And we're going to-- here
I'll close this sidebar
and make this a
little bit easier.
OK.
So we're going to use cURL.
We're going to pass a header
with our authorization key.
So remember earlier,
I grabbed two keys out
of my Firebase console.
I'll go back so
you can see here.
So let's see, we go to
our project settings.
We go to cloud messaging.
So there's two keys here.
There is this really
long server key,
and there was our sender ID.
So I need this really
long server key.
And I'm going to pass that
as my authorization key
in this cURL header.
So that is this first part here.
It's super long, super
long, it goes on forever.
There we go.
So we need that.
Then we have another header
for the content-type.
We are just going to say
it's application/json
and pass the -d flag
to tell it we're
going to pass it some data.
And the data that
we're sending-- sorry,
this is a little hard to read.
But the data that we're sending
is an object with a 2 value.
And the 2 value is going
to be our user's token.
So that really, really
long string here.
So that helps identify their
device, if I recall correctly.
So we're going to
make sure that we're
sending it to the right device.
So go all the way to the end.
Paste in that token, right?
Double check that's right.
Yep.
And then we send them
a notification object.
So this can have a title field.
We'll just say hello world.
And a body object-- we'll just
say this is a notification.
And the last piece that we
pass is this address to FCM.
So we're going to
grab all of this.
We're going to go
to our console--
have a new tab here--
paste that in, run it.
So we should get something that
looks like this where it says,
success 1, so far, so good.
Go back to our project.
You can see here in our
terminal now-- here,
I'll boost this up so it's
really clear that we've
got a "message received."
So remember, we were
console logging our message.
The message has been received.
And we're going to look at the
object, look at the message,
look at the
notification, and we can
see there is the content
for our notification.
So, yeah, if you want to
tell your user like, hey, you
won some amazing contest, you
won 1,000 free inflatable ducks
you can do that
using that object.
So that is the basics of
setting up notifications
using Polymerfire.
Again, it's a fair
number of steps,
but honestly, compared to
doing all this yourself
in JavaScript, this is a much
much, much easier approach.
So I highly recommend
everyone try it out.
If you have any questions
about what we did today,
as always, you can leave them
for me down in the comments.
Or you can hit me up on a
social network of your choosing
at #AskPolymer.
As always, thanks so
much for watching.
I'll see you next time.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Hey, folks, what's up?
It is Rob.
Thank you so much for
watching this episode.
If you'd like to see some
more, we got some over there
in the playlist.
As always, you can click
the little Subscribe
button to keep getting
content every time
we push it up to the channel.
Again, thank you so
much for watching.
[MUSIC PLAYING]